>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
DECEMBER 29th, THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S COLLECTION OF PHONE
RECORDS.
IT MIGHT BE LEFT TO THE SUPREM
COURT TO DECIDE.
>>> KEEPING YOUNG OFFENDERS OU
OF JAIL BY FOCUSING ON FAMILIES.
>> NO WELCOME MATS ON THE FLOOR,
YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE TO DEVELO
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE PARENTS
I HAD A MOTHER SLAM THE DOOR I
MY FACE A FEW TIMES.
>>> AND, THE FUTURE OF THE U.S
POST OFFICE NEXT ON "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK THI
IS "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FOR
JOINING US
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION SAY
ENROLLMENT FOR HEALTH CARE
BENEFITS SERVES THIS MONTH
THOUGH IT IS FAR BEHIN
ADMINISTRATION PROJECTIONS
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS NEARLY A
MILLION PEOPLE SIGNED UP I
DECEMBER, THAT'S ABOUT SIX TIMES
AS MANY REGISTRATIONS AS WHE
THE HEALTHCARE.GOV WEBSITE WAS
PLAGUED BY PROBLEMS.
DOES NOT INCLUDE CALIFORNIA AN
NEW YORK, THAT RUN THEIR OWN
EXCHANGES.
BOY SCOUT LEADERS SAY TH
ORGANIZATION IS MOVING AHEAD
WITH ITS PLAN TO MOVE LAST MAY
TO ACCEPT OPENLY GAY YOUTH
THE NEW RULES TAKE EFFECT NE
YEAR'S DAY
THE ORGANIZATION IS ENCOURAGIN
SCOUT LEADERS TO PROVIDE PRIVACY
FOR SCOUTS
THE BOY SCOUTS HAVE MORE THA
2.5 MILLION MEMBERS.
>>> SECRETARY OF STATE JOH
KERRY WILL RETURN TO THE MIDDL
EAST THIS WEEK
ISRAEL SAID YESTERDAY IT WIL
FREE 26 PALESTINIAN PRISONERS,
BUT IT IS ALSO EXPECTED TO
ANNOUNCE PLANS FOR MORE JEWISH
SETTLEMENTS.
>>> IN ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT
ROCKETS FIRED FROM LEBANON
STRUCK NORTHERN ISRAEL, BU
CAUSED NO DAMAGE OR INJURIES
ISRAEL RESPONDED BY SHELLING THE
AREA WHERE THE ROCKETS WER
LAUNCHED
>>> AUTHORITIES IN RUSSI
STEPPED UP SECURITY FOLLOWING
SUICIDE BOMBING EARLIER TODAY.
18 PEOPLE KILLED AND DOZEN
WOUNDED AFTER A WOMAN BLEW
HERSELF UP NEAR THE TRAI
STATION IN A SOUTHERN RUSSIA
CITY
NOBODY CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY,
BUT A MONTH AGO A CHECHEN LEADER
CALLED FOR ATTACKS IN RUSSIA
THE WINTER OLYMPICS BEGI
HUNDREDS OF MILES FROM TODAY'S
BOMBING SITE IN SIX WEEKS.
>>> A CLASSIFIED REPORT WARN
THAT TALIBAN INFLUENCE I
AFGHANISTAN WILL GRO
SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE NEXT FE
YEARS, EVEN IF SOME AMERICAN
TROOPS ARE STILL DEPLOYED THERE.
THE REPORT QUOTED IN TODAY'S
"WASHINGTON POST" WARNS THAT THE
SITUATION WILL DETERIORATE MUC
MORE RAPIDLY IF AFGHANISTAN DOES
NOT AGREE ON A NEW SECURITY PACT
WITH THE UNITED STATES
IF IT DOES NOT, ALL U.S. TROOP
WILL LEAVE AFGHANISTAN BY TH
END OF NEXT YEAR
THE NATIONAL INTELLIGENC
ESTIMATE RELIED ON INPUT FROM 16
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES.
>>> INTERNATIONAL MONITORS SAY
THAT SYRIA WILL NOT MEET THE
YEAR-END DEADLINE FOR REMOVING
ITS MOST DEADLY CHEMICAL
WEAPONS, INCLUDING SUBSTANCE
THAT CREATE SARIN AND NERVE GAS.
THE MONITOR BLAMED THE DELAY O
BAD WEATHER AND DIFFICULTY
TRANSPORTING THE WEAPONS PAS
REBELS BATTLING THE ASSA
REGIME
A HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAID TODA
THAT THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
BOMBING CAMPAIGN AGAINST REBEL
IN ALEPPO HAS RESULTED IN MORE
THAN 500 DEATHS DURING THE LAS
TWO WEEKS AND SAID THE VICTIMS
INCLUDING 151 CHILDREN
>>> AND FROM ENGLAND TONIGHT
MORE THAN 400-YEAR-OLD WORK BY
ANTHONY VAN DYKE HAS BEE
DISCOVERED
THE PAINTING HAD BEEN PURCHASE
AT AN ANTIQUE SHOP BY AN ENGLISH
PRIEST WHO PAID $660 FOR I
BECAUSE HE LIKED THE FRAME
IT'S REPORTEDLY WORTH $660,000
THE PRIEST SAYS HE WILL SELL THE
PAINTING AND RESTORE THE BELLS
OF THE CHAPEL AT A RELIGIOUS
RETREAT.
THE WHOLE STORY UNFOLDED ON TH
BBC's VERSION OF "ANTIQUES
ROADSHOW."
>> WE WANT TO TURN TO AN
IMPORTANT STORY THAT BROKE
FRIDAY
THE GOVERNMENT'S COLLECTION OF
PHONE RECORDS IS CONSTITUTIONAL,
IN CONTRAST TO ANOTHER JUDGE'S
RULING 11 DAYS EARLIER THAT SAID
IT LIKELY WASN'T
FOR MORE ON THE TIMING AND ABOUT
WHAT CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES MIGHT
DETERMINE THE OUTCOME OF THE
CASE, WE'RE JOINED NOW B
WASHINGTON FROM ADAM LIPTACK
SO THE JUDGES COULDN'T HAV
DISAGREED MORE ON MORE THINGS IN
THESE RULINGS.
LET'S FIRST START ABOUT TH
DISAGREEMENT ON WHETHER OR NOT
THIS GOVERNMENT PROGRAM TO
CAPTURE DATA FROM OUR CELL PHONE
RECORDS EVEN WORKED.
>> THEY WERE FAR APART ON EVER
PART OF THIS CASE, ON THE FACTS,
THE MOST RECENT JUDGE, ONE I
NEW YORK ON FRIDAY, SAID THA
THIS PROGRAM, NSA PROGRAM THAT
COLLECTS RECORDS COULD HAV
PREVENTED 9/11 AND HE SEEMED
PERSUADED BY SEVERAL OTHER
INSTANCES IN WHICH THE
GOVERNMENT ASSERTS THE PROGRAM
MADE A DIFFERENCE IN PREVENTIN
TERRORIST ATTACKS.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT TH
CONSTITUTIONALITY QUESTION
UNDERNEATH
WHAT'S INTERESTING, THE MOST
RECENT JUDGE SAID WE HAVE
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT, BUT NOT A
ABSOLUTE RIGHT TO PRIVACY AN
THAT LOOKS AT THE UNREASONABLE
SEARCH AND SEIZURES UNDER TH
FOURTH AMENDMENT
>> RIGHT
THE CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTIO
STARTS WITH, DO WE HAVE
REASONABLE EXPECTATION O
PRIVACY IN INFORMATION WE TURN
OVER TO THIRD PARTIES LIKE PHONE
COMPANIES?
THE SUPREME COURT BACK IN 1979
IN A VERY DIFFERENT ERA SAID W
DO NOT, AND, THEREFORE, TH
FOURTH AMENDMENT DOESN'T EVE
GET IMPLICATED
THE JUDGE TWO WEEKS AGO IN
WASHINGTON SAID THAT 197
DECISION DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENS
IN THE MODERN AGE OF SMARTPHONES
AND BIG DATA AND THE ABILITY T
PUT TOGETHER A WHOLE MOSAIC OF
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR PRIVAT
LIVES.
THE NEW JUDGE SAID, LISTEN
THIRD PARTY DATA IS NO
PROTECTED AND I'M NOT GOIN
BEYOND WHAT THE SUPREME COUR
SAYS
>> WHAT HAPPENS NEXT, IS THI
LIKELY WHERE TWO JUDGE
DISAGREE
ARE THERE OTHER CASES PENDING?
EVENTUALLY DOES THE SUPREM
COURT DECIDE TO HEAR IT?
>> THERE ARE SEVERAL OTHER CASES
PENDING.
THESE TWO WILL TAKE THE LEAD AND
GO TO FEDERAL APPEALS COURTS I
NEW YORK AND WASHINGTON.
IF THEY DISAGREE, IT SURELY GOES
TO THE SUPREME COURT, AND IF ANY
APPEALS COURT STRIKES DOWN A
MAJOR NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
PROGRAM, THE SUPREME COURT'S
VERY LIKELY TO TAKE IT, BU
THERE'S ANOTHER SCENARIO, TOO,
WHICH IS THAT THE WASHINGTON
DECISION STRIKING DOWN THE
PROGRAM STARTS TO LOOK LIKE AN
OUTLIER AND IF ALL THE APPEALS
COURTS SAY, NO, IT'S OKAY, MAYBE
THE SUPREME COURT STAYS OUT OF
IT
>> AND THE SUPREME COURT I
LIKELY TO DO WHAT IN TERMS O
THEY ARE VERY, VERY CAUTIOUS
ABOUT CHALLENGING PREVIOUS
DECISIONS THAT THEY'VE MADE.
>> THAT'S TRUE, ALTHOUGH JUST IN
2012 IN A CASE INVOLVING GPS
DEVICES, FIVE DIFFEREN
JUSTICES, ALBEIT IN CONCURRING
OPINIONS, EXPRESSED HESITATION
ABOUT THIS OLD RULE, SAYING THAT
NEW TECHNOLOGY MIGHT REQUIRE
RE-EXAMINATION OF THE IDEA THA
MERELY BECAUSE THIRD PARTIES
KNOW OUR DATA, WE LOSE A
EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY IN IT
>> IF THIS ISSUE DOES MAKE IT TO
THE SUPREME COURT, IS THERE AN
INDICATION HOW THE JUSTICE
WOULD BREAK?
IS THIS A LIBERAL VERSUS A
CONSERVATIVE ISSUE
>> IF YOU LOOK AT IT THROUGH THE
LENS OF NATIONAL SECURITY, THE
ANSWER WOULD BE YES.
IF YOU LOOK THROUGH THE LENS O
FOURTH AMENDMENT MORE GENERALLY,
THE COURT HAS BEEN SCRAMBLED AND
A CONSERVATIVE LIKE JUSTIC
SCALIA HAS OCCASIONALLY TAKEN
MORE PROTECTIVE ATTITUDE TOWARDS
PRIVACY RIGHTS, SO IT DEPEND
WHICH LENS YOU LOOK AT I
THROUGH.
>> ADAM LIPTACK FROM "THE NE
YORK TIMES," THANKS SO MUCH.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE
♪♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, OUR IN-DEPTH REPORT
FROM AROUND THE NATION AND
AROUND THE WORLD
TONIGHT WE LOOK AT AN INNOVATIVE
PROGRAM HERE IN NEW YORK CIT
DESIGNED TO KEEP YOUNG OFFENDERS
FROM BECOMING REPEAT OFFENDERS
IT INVOLVES NEW THINKING ABOUT
POLICING AND NEW TASKS POLIC
OFFICERS PERFORM AS A RESULT
HERE'S OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: ON THIS WEDNESDAY
EVENING IN EAST HARLEM, OFFICERS
JAMES DOCCO AND VICTOR RAMOS PAY
A VISIT TO A YOUNG MAN IN TH
NEIGHBORHOOD
HE'S A 20-YEAR-OLD NAMED JORDA
RAUS AND WAS ARRESTED A FE
YEARS AGO ON A ROBBERY CHARGE,
BUT THEY ARE NOT HERE TO ARRES
HIM TODAY, THEY ARE HERE TO MAKE
SURE HE STAYS OUT OF TROUBLE
>> ALL RIGHT
ANY LUCK YET
>> NOT NO LUCK RIGHT NOW
>> OKAY.
>> THIS IS WHAT WE DO.
WE GO VISIT.
HEY, WHAT'S GOING ON, WHAT'S UP?
EVEN THOUGH YOU HAVEN'T GOTTEN
IN TROUBLE IN AWHILE, WE WAN
YOU TO CONTINUE THAT ROUTE
WE'RE HERE TO PREVENT THEM FRO
BEING ARRESTED INSTEAD OF BEIN
THE PERSON THAT ARRESTS THEM
>> THIS KIND OF PROACTIV
POLICING IS AT THE HEART OF
LITTLE-KNOWN PROGRAM WITHIN TH
NYPD CALLED "THE JUVENIL
ROBBERY INTERVENTION PROGRAM,"
OR J-RIP
ITS AIM IS TO STEER EVER
TEENAGER WHO'S ARRESTED FROM A
ROBBERY AWAY FROM A LIFE O
CRIME.
THE FOCUS IS ON TWO NEW YORK
CITY NEIGHBORHOODS
OFFICERS MAKE REPEATED VISITS TO
THE TEENS' HOMES, GETTING TO
KNOW THEIR FAMILIES AN
MONITORING THEIR WHEREABOUTS
>> IN THE POLICE DEPARTMENT WE
USUALLY LOOK AT WHERE CRIME IS
HAPPENING, AND THAT'S WHERE WE
DEPLOY OUR PERSONNEL, AND THAT
WAS ONLY WORKING, YOU KNOW,
BIT HERE
>> JOANNE IS THE HOUSING BUREA
CHIEF FOR NYPD
SHE OVERSEES HUNDREDS OF HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS
ONLY ABOUT 5% OF THE CITY'
RESIDENTS LIVE IN PUBLIC
HOUSING, BUT APPROXIMATELY 20%
OF VIOLENT CRIME TAKES PLACE I
THEM
IN LATE 2006, SHE NOTICED
SPIKE IN ROBBERIES COMMITTED B
TEENS IN PUBLIC HOUSING UNITS IN
THE BROWNSVILLE AREA O
BROOKLYN
>> A LOT OF IT, THE MAJORITY O
IT, WAS YOUTH-ON-YOUTH
ROBBERIES, WHERE YOUNG TEENAGERS
WERE STEALING PROPERTY OF OTHE
YOUNG KIDS THAT LIVED IN THE
AREA
AND WE KNEW WE HAD TO DO
SOMETHING, AND WHAT I STARTED TO
LOOK AT IS, WHERE DID TH
ROBBERS THAT ARE COMMITTIN
ROBBERIES LIVE
>> THAT'S WHEN SHE CAME UP WIT
J-RIP.
>> AND THE IDEA WAS NOW, WE WERE
GOING TO GO TO EVERY JUVENIL
AND WE WERE GOING TO GIVE THEM A
MESSAGE.
IF THEY CONTINUED TO ENGAGE IN
CRIMINAL CONDUCT, WE WOULD D
EVERYTHING IN OUR POWER TO MAK
SURE THAT THEY STAY IN JAIL.
THE SECOND COMPONENT TO TH
PROGRAM WAS REALLY TO GE
INVOLVED WITH THEM AND THEIR
FAMILIES AND IDENTIFY RESOURCE
TO ASSIST THE FAMILY AS A WHOLE.
>> WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
SOUNDS A LOT LIKE SOCIAL WORK.
IS THIS REALLY THE ROLE OF A
POLICE OFFICER OR POLICE UNIT?
>> I THINK SO MUCH OF WHAT WE DO
IS SOCIAL WORK
THERE'S A TRUE OVERLAP
HERE, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT YOUN
KIDS, YOUNG ADULTS, THAT HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY, WE HAVE A
OPPORTUNITY TO HELP THEM AND
THEIR FAMILIES CHANGE THEI
LIVES.
>> THE PROGRAM BEGAN IN 2007
AND NOW TRACKS A TOTAL OF 31
TEENAGERS IN BROWNSVILLE
BROOKLYN, AND IN EAST HARLEM
BOTH AREAS WITH HIGH RATES O
ROBBERIES COMMITTED BY TEENS
WHY IS THIS PROGRAM FOCUSED ON
ROBBERIES?
>> A LOT OF KIDS AREN'T INVOLVED
IN HOMICIDES, YOU KNOW, KIDS ARE
INVOLVED IN ROBBERIES.
THEY ARE STEALING PROPERTY, AN
SOME OF THEM DON'T EVEN REALIZ
THAT WHAT THEY ARE DOING IS
SERIOUS, SERIOUS FELONY CRIME.
>> JORDAN RAUS SAYS THAT WAS THE
CASE FOR HIM
HE WAS ARRESTED IN 2009 AT THE
AGE OF 16, CHARGED WITH ROBBER
BY PHYSICAL FORCE.
HE STOLE SOMEONE'S CELL PHONE.
>> EVERYTHING I DID WAS FOR THAT
MOMENT
I DIDN'T THINK ABOUT PAST OR
FUTURE
IT WAS JUST HERE AND NOW
>> JORDAN LIVES ALONE WITH HIS
MOTHER
GROWING UP, HE RARELY SAW HI
FATHER, AND HIS MOM SAYS KEEPING
HIM ON THE RIGHT PATH WASN'T
EASY
>> THERE WAS NIGHTS I CAN'
WATCH HIM WHEN I'M NOT HERE, S
BASICALLY, HE WAS GOING TO
SCHOOL AND NOT DOING ANYTHING.
>> IN THE NEARLY FOUR YEARS THAT
THE OFFICERS HAVE BEEN
MONITORING JORDAN, THEY'VE
OFFERED HIM ADVICE ON HOW TO
LAND A JOB AND ENCOURAGED HIM TO
ENROLL IN VOCATIONAL TRAININ
CLASSES.
>> IF YOU WANT TO GO, KEPT
RESISTING, AND AFTER, YOU KNOW
JUST CONSTANTLY HARASSING HI
ABOUT IT, BASICALLY, IF THAT'S
HOW YOU WANT TO SAY IT
HARASSING, HE FINALLY DECIDED TO
GO
WENT, AND ACTUALLY EARNED HI
DIPLOMA OUT OF THERE
>> KEEP HIM ON HIS TOES.
LET HIM KNOW, YOU KNOW WHAT,
OFFICER WILL BE COMING AROUND.
YOU GOT TO, YOU KNOW, STEP U
YOUR GAME.
YOU HAVE TO, YOU KNOW, IMPROVE
YOURSELF
>> FOR OFFICERS IN THIS PROGRAM,
IT'S A JOB THAT REQUIRES TIM
AND RESOURCES TO DEVELOP AND
MAINTAIN THESE RELATIONSHIPS
EVERYTHING FROM DRIVING TEENS TO
DOCTORS APPOINTMENTS T
CONNECTING FAMILIES WITH
CHILDCARE OPTIONS.
BUT GAINING THE TRUST OF
FAMILIES ISN'T ALWAYS SO EASY.
ESPECIALLY IN NEIGHBORHOOD
WHERE THE CONTROVERSIAL USE OF
STOP AND FRISK HAS CREATED
TENSION.
>> THERE'S NOT ALL WELCOME MAT
ON THE FLOOR, YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE
TO DEVELOP RELATIONSHIPS WIT
THE PARENTS.
IT MAY TAKE WEEKS.
I HAD A MOTHER SLAM THE DOOR I
MY FACE A FEW TIMES.
>> WHAT IF THEY SAY I DON'T WANT
TO BE IN THIS PROGRAM, I DON'T
WANT TO HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH
IT
>> GREAT QUESTION.
GUESS WHAT, THEY DON'T HAVE
CHOICE
THEY ARE IN A PROGRAM WE'R
GOING TO MONITOR AND MENTO
THEM
THEY CAN NOT ALLOW US TO MENTO
THEM, BUT WE CAN MONITOR THEM.
>> THIS IS THEIR GROUP
>> THAT MEANS MONITORING THE
ANY WAY THEY CAN, EVEN POSING AS
TEENAGERS ON SOCIAL MEDI
WEBSITES
>> YOU HAVE KIDS OUT THERE THA
USED TO BE IN THESE CREWS --
>> DETECTIVE PATRICK KENNEDY HAS
A FAKE FACEBOOK PROFILE HE USE
TO MONITOR ACCOUNTS OF TEENS I
THE PROGRAM EVERY DAY.
>> IF WE SEE SOMEBODY STATIN
THERE'S A PARTY ON SATURDAY,
WE'LL LET THE PROPER PRECINC
KNOW ABOUT IT, AND THEY'LL G
AND SHUT IT DOWN BEFORE IT EVE
HAPPENS.
>> HOW WOULD THEY FEEL IF THEY
KNOW YOU'RE LOOKING AT THEIR
FACEBOOK PAGES
>> THEY KNOW
YOU SEE THEM SAYING, YOU KNOW,
LET THE FEDS OR NYPD WATCHIN
US
>> SOME TACTICS LIKE SETTING U
A DUMMY FACEBOOK PAGE AND TRYING
TO ACCESS THE SOCIAL MEDIA
WEBSITES OF OTHER KIDS IN TH
COMMUNITY, I MEAN, IS THAT
CROSSING A LINE?
>> I DON'T THINK IT IS
YOU KNOW, WE GET INFORMATION
FROM KIDS, AND WE JUST DO OU
HOMEWORK
>> SOMEONE MIGHT LOOK AT THA
AND SAY IT'S INVASIVE, IT'
MISREPRESENTING WHO THAT PERSO
IS
HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THAT
>> I WOULD SAY THAT I DON'
THINK IT IS.
>> SINCE THE PROGRAM IS SO
SMALL, IT HAS ATTRACTE
RELATIVELY LITTLE ATTENTION, AND
EVEN LESS CRITICISM.
DAVID KENNEDY, AN EXPERT O
CRIME REDUCTION, SAYS THES
KINDS OF TACTICS ARE NOT
SURPRISING
>> LOOK, POLICE WATCH TH
PUBLIC
THE POLICE HAVE ALWAYS WATCHED
THE PUBLIC, AND WHEN POLICE HAVE
REASON TO THINK THAT PARTICULA
PEOPLE ARE PARTICULARLY ACTIVE
AND DANGEROUS, THEY ARE GOING TO
WATCH THEM MORE CLOSELY.
>> KENNEDY IS CONSIDERED A
RENOWNED AUTHORITY ON CRIMINAL
JUSTICE POLICIES IN THE U.S.
HIS PHILOSOPHY, WHICH HAS BEEN
WIDELY IMPLEMENTED WITH GREA
SUCCESS, IS TO HAVE REGULA
DIALOGUE AMONG OFFENDERS
COMMUNITY MEMBERS, AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
>> THESE ARE NEIGHBORHOODS THA
NEED MORE PUBLIC SAFETY.
THEY NEED A DIFFERENT KIND O
CRIMINAL JUSTICE, ONE THAT WORKS
FOR THEM WITHOUT LOCKING
EVERYBODY UP, AND THEY NEED TO
HAVE RESET RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN
THE COMMUNITY AND THE COPS
>> THE JUVENILE ROBBER
INTERVENTION PROGRAM, HE SAYS,
IS PUTTING THIS IDEA INT
PRACTICE
>> NYPD IS A NO-NONSENSE POLIC
DEPARTMENT, AND THE FACT THA
THEY HAVE INVENTED THI
INSTITUTIONALIZED IT, AND AR
BACKING IT, IS REALLY
BREAKTHROUGH FOR POLICING, AND
IT'S A TESTAMENT TO HO
SERIOUSLY THEY ARE TAKING THIS
WAY OF THINKING ABOUT THINGS
>> SO IS THE PROGRAM MAKING
DIFFERENCE
OF THE 317 TEENS THAT THE NYPD
IS MONITORING THIS YEAR, ONLY 30
WERE ARRESTED FROM JANUARY
THROUGH NOVEMBER
THAT'S A RECIDIVISM RATE OF JUST
MORE THAN 10%.
THE NYPD DOESN'T TRACK NUMBERS
TO MAKE A CITYWIDE COMPARISON,
BUT SAYS THE RATE IS A
INDICATOR OF SUCCESS, AND SAYS
SOME THINGS CAN'T BE MEASURED AT
ALL, LIKE THE RIPPLE EFFECT ON
FRIENDS AND FAMILIES OF TH
TEENS IN THE PROGRAM
POLICE COMMISSIONER RAY KELL
APPLAUDS THE PROGRAM, BUT SAYS
ADDING MORE RESOURCES TO IT IS
NOT LIKELY ANY TIME SOON
>> WE HAVE ABOUT 6,000 FEWER
POLICE OFFICERS THAN WE HAD 12
YEARS AGO, SO WE'RE DOING MORE
WITH LESS.
WE'D LIKE TO DO MORE OF J-RIP IN
THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE, PROBABLY
GOING TO BE DIFFICULT TO EXPAN
IT IN ANY SIGNIFICANT WAY.
>> YOU'RE INVESTING HEAVILY IN
THESE INDIVIDUALS, SO WHEN A
YOUNG PERSON BECOMES A REPEA
OFFENDER, IS THAT INVESTMENT
SQUANDERED
>> NO, I DON'T THINK SO, BECAUSE
FOR THE KIDS THAT CONTINUE TO BE
INVOLVED IN CRIMINAL CONDUCT, WE
NEED TO GET THEM OFF THE
STREETS.
WE NEED TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC,
AND OUR DUTY IS PROTECT THES
OTHER KIDS, AND I THINK WE AS
SOCIETY AND WE IN THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT HAVE TO DO EVERYTHING
WE CAN TO FIRST HELP THESE KID
CHANGE THEIR LIVES
>> AT THE END OF EACH YEAR
OFFICERS IN EAST HARLEM THROW
HOLIDAY PARTY TO NURTURE NEW AND
OLD RELATIONSHIPS WITH FAMILIE
IN THE PROGRAM
TONIGHT, OFFICERS SURPRISED THIS
GRANDMOTHER WITH A BIRTHDA
CAKE
JORDAN RAUS AND HIS MOTHER ARE
HERE
JORDAN SAYS THAT HIS GOAL IS T
APPLY TO COLLEGES NEXT YEAR AN
WORK TOWARDS BECOMING
CORRECTIONS OFFICER.
>> I DON'T SEE THINGS THE WAY
USED TO.
I SEE THE BIGGER PICTURE I
LIFE, BASICALLY.
YOU KNOW, GET A JOB, GO TO
SCHOOL
I WASN'T REALLY THINKING LIK
THAT AT THE TIME
I WAS JUST A MOMENT TYPE OF GUY.
IF I WANTED IT, I'D TAKE IT, BUT
NOT NO MORE.
>>> JOIN US ONLINE TO LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE ATTACK ON THE U.S.
DIPLOMATIC MISSION IN BENGHAZI
LIBYA, THAT KILLED FOU
AMERICANS.
WATCH MY INTERVIEW WITH "NEW
YORK TIMES" REPORTER DAVID
KIRKPATRICK AT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
>>> ANOTHER STORY THAT CAME AN
WENT WAS THE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THE PRICE OF THE FIRST-CLASS
STAMP WILL RISE FROM 46 TO 4
CENTS IN LATE JANUARY.
THIS GOT US WONDERING ABOUT TH
FUTURE OF MAIL DELIVERY IN THI
COUNTRY.
FOR MORE, WE'RE JOINED B
BRADLEY CLAPPER.
HE COVERED THE STORY FOR THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS
LET'S TALK ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT
THIS PRICE HIKE IN OUR STAMPS IS
TO THE VIABILITY OF THE POSTAL
SYSTEM TODAY
>> WELL, CERTAINLY, THE POSTAL
SERVICE HOPES THIS IS GOING TO
HELP IT GENERATE MORE REVENUE.
THEY WERE HARD HIT BY TH
RECESSION.
THEY'VE ALSO BEEN HARD HIT B
INCREASED COMPETITION FROM
PRIVATE POSTAL CARRIERS, AS WELL
AS THE INTERNET, WHICH MAKES A
LOT OF THINGS WE USED TO DO BY
POST NOT NECESSARY ANY LONGER,
BUT FOR CONSUMERS, I DON'T THINK
THERE WILL BE IMMEDIATE DRASTI
EFFECTS.
YES, THREE CENTS MORE A STAM
AND CONSIDERING HOW MUCH LES
CONSUMERS ARE MAILING TODAY, I
SHOULDN'T BE A DRAMATIC PINCH IN
THE POCKETBOOK
>> WHAT ABOUT THE COMPANIES THAT
USE BULK MAIL OFTEN, WHETHER
IT'S THE MAGAZINES O
PUBLISHER'S CLEARINGHOUSE, ARE
THEY GOING TO FEEL THE PINCH
MUCH WORSE
>> THIS IS WHERE THE LOUDE
PROTESTS ARE COMING FROM
WHETHER IT'S GREETING CARDS,
MAGAZINES, CHARITIES, THEY ARE
REALLY UPSET WITH THIS
THEY SAY THIS COULD EFFECT THE
BOTTOM LINES, THIS COULD MEA
LOST JOBS, THIS COULD REALLY
IMPACT THE WAY THEY DO BUSINESS.
>> OVER THE HOLIDAYS, WE'VE SEEN
HOW PEOPLE ARE DEPENDING MOR
AND MORE ON COMPANIES LIKE UPS
AND FEDEX TO GET THEIR PACKAGE
DONE
OVER TIME, DOES THIS MEAN TH
VIABILITY OF A STATE-RUN POSTA
SERVICE IS IN JEOPARDY
>> IT'S A TIME OF CHANGE
CLEARLY, FOR POSTAL SERVICES
WORLDWIDE, FEWER AND FEWER ARE
NOW STATE OWNED.
A LOT HAVE TO GO THROUGH
DIFFICULT RESTRUCTURING IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF DECADES
IN KHAN CANADA, THERE'S A MOVE
TO CURTAIL HOME DELIVERY AND
OTHER SERVICES
IN THE UNITED STATES, DESPIT
HIGH LEVEL OF LOSSES IN RECENT
YEARS, THE SERVICES ARE STIL
THERE, SO CHANGES MAY BE AROUN
THE CORNER
>> SO THE MONEY THAT THE POSTA
SERVICE WILL RAISE FROM TH
INCREASED PRICE OF STAMPS, I
THAT GOING TO BE ENOUGH TO GET
IT BACK ON A FINANCIALLY SOLVENT
TRACK?
>> THAT ALONE ISN'T GOING TO D
IT AND IS SOMETHING THE POSTAL
SERVICE RECOGNIZES
THE REGULATORS RECOGNIZED THEY
COULD RAISE THE PRICE OF A STAMP
AND BULK MAIL AND OTHER SERVICES
FOR ABOUT TWO YEARS, AND THE
IDEA WAS THAT THEY WOULD BE ABLE
TO RECOUP $2.8 MILLION, BU
LOSSES LAST YEAR FOR THE POSTA
SERVICE WERE ABOUT $6 BILLION,
THE YEAR BEFORE WERE ABOUT $15
BILLION, SO THAT ALONE IS NO
GOING TO MAKE IT A SUDDENL
FINANCIALLY SOLVENT ENTERPRISE
>> ALL RIGHT
BRADLEY CLAPPER FROM THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, THANKS S
MUCH
>> APPRECIATE IT
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND SUNDAY."
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, A
LONG-RUNNING DEBATE THAT DEFIE
NATIONAL BORDERS, THE QUESTION
WHETHER PARENTS SHOULD EVER HI
THEIR CHILDREN
NOW, A MOVEMENT IS UNDER WAY I
GREAT BRITAIN THAT WOULD MAKE IT
ILLEGAL.
ADVOCATES OF THE BAN SAY CURRENT
LAWS DO A BETTER JOB O
PROTECTING FAMILY PETS THA
CHILDREN
ROBIN DWYER REPORTS.
>> Reporter: TO SMACK OR NOT T
SMACK IS THE QUESTION THAT STILL
PROMOTES ARGUMENTS AMONG
PARENTS.
>> GENERALLY, I WOULDN'T SMACK
THEM, BUT I THINK PEOPLE HAV
DISCRETION
>> I WOULD SMACK, I THINK IT
WORKS.
>> IT'S DIFFERENT.
I DON'T THINK CHILDREN SHOUL
FEEL FRIGHTENED OF THEIR
PARENTS.
>> Reporter: BUT SHOULD THEY
EVEN HAVE THE CHOICE
THE CHILDREN'S COMMISSION OF
ENGLAND THINKS NOT, SAYING THERE
SHOULD BE AN OUTRIGHT BAN.
SHE TOLD THE INDEPENDENT, IN
LAW, YOU'RE FORBIDDEN FROM
STRIKING ANOTHER ADULT AND FRO
PHYSICALLY CHASTISING YOUR PETS,
BUT SOMEHOW THERE'S A LOOPHOLE
AROUND THE FACT THAT YOU CAN
PHYSICALLY CHASTISE YOUR CHILD
IT'S COUNTEREVIDENTIAL
>> IT'S INCOMPREHENSIBLE ADULT
CAN BE PROTECTED FROM ANY OTHE
ADULT FROM BEING PUSHED OR
SHOVED OR SMACK OR HIT OR AN
SORT OF WAY BUT A YOUNG INFANT
AND BABY DOESN'T HAVE THAT SAM
TYPE OF PROTECTION
>> CONTENT 75, NOT CONTENT, 250.
>> NINE YEARS AGO, PARLIAMEN
REJECTED AN OUTRIGHT BAN
LEGISLATING INSTEAD TO ALLOW
PARENTS TO GIVE A LIGHT SMAC
THAT DIDN'T LEAVE A MARK
THE MAN BEHIND THE REFORM, LOR
LESTER, TOLD ITB NEWS, I AM DEAD
AGAINST SMACKING, BUT ALSO DEA
AGAINST CRIMINALIZING AL
PARENTS.
IT'S A VIEW THAT MANY PARENT
AND POLITICIANS SHARE, MAKIN
ANY IMMEDIATE CHANGE IN THE LA
UNLIKELY
ROBIN DWYER, ITB NEWS.
♪♪
>>> JOIN US ON THE NEWSHOU
TOMORROW ON AIR AND ONLINE
AUTHOR AND JOURNALIST DAVI
IGNATIUS DISCUSSES HIS RECEN
TRIP TO IRAN
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND," THANKS
FOR WATCHING